Yeah.
These functions are for converting a string into a number.
So this a string is containing numbers.
Actually, these are characters two, three and seven.
They also have their ASCII codes.
So these are the characters.
But this function str two l this is str that is a string too long.
So it will give a long integer out of this number.
So it will convert this into a long integer and this is str two f so this is string to float so it will
convert a string to a float number.
So I have a float number here.
So it takes parameter that is a string.
This a string you have to give parameter and this is actually the end of a string.
So usually it is taken as null, so it has to be kept null.
So this is not useful parameter, but this prototype of this function is having one more pointer, so
it is kept as null.
So it converts this into a float number and thus it will convert into a long integer.
Let us try these two functions.
Yeah.
Here in the program already I have two strings.
As for the last two, this is having a number to 35, but actually it is a string.
So let us convert it into a long integer, long int x, assign str to l and I will pass as one.
Now next number I will convert it into float.
So float vi i will say str two f and first second string I have to pass and I said this parameter is
null.
Oh there is an error.
Oh I missed this C here.
Also it needs a parameter that is null, that is end of a string.
And also we should mention the base.
This is a decimal number system, so it should be ten.
If you are using a octal number system, then it should mention eight or binary, you have to mention
two.
And that is the number system you have to mention here.
So both this function needs and of a string, that is where the number is ending.
So it's better right now because you have everything here as a number.
Now let us print these two values.
See out X and L and Y and then and let us print this.
Yes.
We got a number that is 235.
Then this is 54.78.
So these are numbers, actually.
So I will show you how these are numbers.
So in this X, I will add plus ten and show you this is 235.
So it should become 245.
Yes it is adding.
So because it's an integer, so it's an integer number.
So this ten is getting added.
Now from this way, I will subtract five and see.
So it is 54, so it should be 49.
Yes, it is 49.
So I'm able to perform arithmetic operations because these are integer and float type of values.
Now.
Now, let us look at one more function on string.
Yeah.
Here the function is string token SDR.
Okay.
This will tokenize a string.
So if you observe a string here x equals then ten, then semicolon y equals 20.
So the y value is 20 and z value is 35.
So the way I have written a string, this means to say that X is having value ten and Y is having value
20 and that is having value 35.
And these values are separated by semicolons.
So from this I want to know what is the value of X or what is the value of Z?
So I should be able to know where is Z and what is the value beside that one.
So I should be able to tokenize this one, make the token.
So what are the tokens?
X is one token and ten is under the token, right?
Y is one token and 20 is another token.
Now same way Z and its value 35 is another token.
So I want to tokenize this a string make the token out of it.
So for that the mm are the symbols that are separating are equal to symbol and semicolon symbol.
So the string should be tokenized based on these two symbols equal to n semicolon.
So yes, this strategic function will tokenize a string based on the symbols that you use here or Mm.
That you use here.
This type of string is famously known as key value pair.
That is x is a key and its value then separated Y is the key and 20 is its value.
Z is a key and 35 is a value.
This is you commonly used in web programming.
So this type of string, we can tokenize it by using this function that is str t.
Okay, so I'll show you how to use this function for taking out all these tokens one by one.
So let us look at a demonstration on this one.
Now, in this program already I have a string containing the key value pairs.
Now let us tokenize this and by calling a function str to see that is str functioning.
So the string name is s one and then the token is equal to symbol and semicolon symbol.
So here what I will try to do is I will directly use it with C out.
Let us see what happens and I'll.
Run this one.
Yes, it has tokenize and it has given just one letter that is x, but I want this stand also the next
I want Y then 20.
Likewise, I want rest of the tokens.
So for this I have to do it repeatedly.
So what is the method?
How to do it repeatedly.
So for that, I'll remove this and I'll show you again once again.
So take a character string.
That is, I will call it as token.
So this is the method you should follow.
Say str to say that is a or token and give a string se sorry s one and then the delimiter are equal
to symbol and semicolon.
Now I have to do it repeatedly so I should take a loop while token is not equal to null.
Continue.
So the first token I will print it.
So I will say see out token.
Then.
NL So it should go into the next line.
So the first token that will come out from this one is X and that will be in token.
So first of all, I'm printing that one.
Then after that I should again call str rt or C bypassing null this time and same mm.
And this result should be again, taken in string.
That is token.
Yes.
So let us do it repeatedly.
Now, this time I have to mention NULL, because all of you have given S1 to string token function.
So next time onwards it works on the same string and for the same delimiter.
So it will be going on giving the tokens.
So one by one all the tokens will be displayed.
So follow this method and now I'll run it and show you how it will print all the tokens.
See X is first token, second one is ten and the next is Y, then 20, then Z, then 35.
That's how we can tokenize and take out all the tokens from a string.
Now here I'll give just a limited semicolon.
So here also I will change it.
Just semicolons.
Let us see what happens.
At two places I have made changes that is x equal to ten and so on.
Right now I'll give equal to as it is, but I'll remove semicolon, I'll give quotation marks.
So here also equal to a question mark.
Question marks are not there so tokenizing will not be done.
Si upon equal to symbol tokenization is done.
Right.
So I'll remove this equal to and gives just a question mark.
So no question mark is there in the string.
So it will give the same result again.
So I got a single string.
There is no tokenisation.
But so we can use different symbol and stuff.
This semicolon, I'll give quotation marks and then let us see what happens.
So I'll give equal to symbol.
And here after question mark, I'll give equal to symbol so you can give them in any order.
All right, let us run it.
Yes.
X ten, Y 20 and Z 35.
So that's all I have shown you a few important functions on a string, so I suggest you practice this
one.
Just watching videos will not help you.
So next topic will be string class that is available in C++.
Then afterwards, we will see some student exercise programs using strings.